**About IIT GOA**


Vision :
IIT Goa will strive to become a unique institution of higher learning, offering state of the art education, research, and training in science and technology to have impact on society, environment and global challenges.

Mission :
The mission of IIT Goa is to impart knowledge and provide unique learning experience to prepare students to be responsible leaders, managers, entrepreneurs, and professionals who will play a leading role in the sustainable development of Goa and the nation as a whole.

The learning experience will reflect the human values of the state—diversity and inclusion.
In the short term, IIT Goa will have a strong focus on quality education and advanced multidisciplinary programs, and in the long term, it will progress towards a self-sustaining institute.
The students, faculty, and staff will steer the institute along the path of excellence to be recognized as a leader in terms of academic quality, multidisciplinary programs, translational research, networking with premier institutes of different countries, and alumni relations.

Motto of IIT Goa
 
“Vidya Vinayena Deepyate”
It has been an established tradition amongst educational institutions, in India and abroad, to have a motto that illustrates the belief of the institution. In India mostly, the motto is taken from Sanskrit, as it is the repository of ancient wisdom and knowledge. Following the same illustrious tradition IIT Goa has chosen ‘Vidya Vinayena Deepyate’ ‘Knowledge shines with humility’ to be the motto of the institute. It was very graciously suggested by Prof. Ramasubramaniam. The motto truly represents our commitment towards inculcating holistic education and human values in our students.

Since time immemorial India has been a knowledge civilization. The quest for knowledge has been one of the basic characteristics of the Indian ethos. Indians in ancient times undertook in-depth studies in areas of Metaphysics, Philosophy, Logic, Linguistics, Astronomy, Mathematics, Medicine and others. The history of our intellectual traditions is presented in our rich literature starting from the Rig Veda.

India has always had a very diverse and open intellectual culture from ‘Samkhya’ to ‘Nyaya’, from ‘Mimamsa’ to ‘Carvaka/Lokayata’. One thing that is remarkable about Indian knowledge tradition is not just ‘tolerance’ but ‘acceptance’ of diversity in thoughts, deeds and life style with humility. The civilizational values of inclusion, goodwill and humility were equally emphasised on.

“Namanti phalino vriksha, Namanti gunino jana:”
“Shushka vriksha ca: murkhash:ca:, na namanti kadachana”

“Good (wise) people bow down (have humility), just like a tree laden with fruits bows, Unwise people never bow (have no humility), just like a dead dry tree”

Our motto is inspired by the same Indian knowledge tradition of hard work, sincerity, openness of ideas, intellectual rigour and, at the same time, our pride in its diversity, civility and humility. Rather than blindly following the plethora of influences from anywhere our students will be critical, they will discover their inner strength by inculcating the same principles of knowledge imparted by our ancestors and follow their footsteps in humility towards greater heights –

“May the light within you illuminate all”

Director: Prof. Dhirendra S Katti

Prof. Katti received his B.Sc. in Chemistry from Fergusson College, Poona University (1990); B.Sc. Tech in Chemical Technology from Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai (1993); and Ph.D. in Chemistry from Bombay University (1999) [worked at CSIR – Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad under Dr. A. V. Rama Rao, then Director, IICT].

He then worked at the laboratory of Prof. Cato T. Laurencin as a post-doctoral fellow at the Dept. of Chem. Engg., Drexel University, Philadelphia, USA (1999-2001) and subsequently as a Research Assistant Professor at the Dept. of Chem. Engg., Drexel University (2001-2003). Prof. Katti then moved on as Assistant Professor (Tenure Track) at the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and the Department of Biomedical Engineering at The University of Virginia, Charlottesville, USA (2003-2004).

Prof. Katti returned to India in 2004 as Assistant Professor at the Department of Biological Sciences and Bioengineering (BSBE), IIT Kanpur and rose through the ranks to become Professor in 2012. He was Head of the BSBE Dept. from 2016-2019 and was the Gireesh Jankinath Chair Professor from 2018-2021. He was the Chairman of JEE for 2019 and 2020 and helped conduct the JEE nationwide in India during the challenging times of COVID-19. Prof. Katti was appointed as the Dean of International Relations (2022-2024) and the Rajeeva and Sangeeta Lahri Chair Professor (2022-2024) at IIT Kanpur.

Prof. Katti serves on the editorial board of Journal of Biomedical Nanotechnology (American Scientific Publishers) and Trends in Biomaterials and Artificial Organs (India) and served as the Associate Editor (Asia) of International Journal of Nanomedicine (Dove Press) 2009-2016.

Prof. Katti is the recipient of the prestigious Tata Innovation Fellowship by Department of Biotechnology (2023) and is an elected Fellow of the Society of Biomaterials and Artificial Organs (FBAO) India (2023) and serves as the President of the Society for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine India (STERMI) (2024-2027).

Prof. Katti has more than 200 publications (including book, book chapters, research publications, patents and conference papers) and a total of over 6500 citations. Prof. Katti has completed 20 and has 4 ongoing extramurally funded projects. Prof. Katti has supervised 125 students (including undergraduate, postgraduate, post-doctoral fellows and project fellows)

His research interests are in the areas of Biomaterials, Drug Delivery Systems, Tissue Engineering, Nano-biotechnology, Nanomedicine, Drug Target Identification, and Disease Model Systems.

Former Directors:
Prof. B. K. Mishra
Founding Director

Formerdirectors message:

message by
Prof. B. K. Mishra
Former Director

In May 2016, the Union Cabinet gave its ex-post- facto approval to amend The
Institutes of Technology Act, 1961, for incorporation of six new IITs including IIT
Goa — an institution of national importance. Subsequently on July 30, 2016, IIT
Goa made its auspicious beginning from the Goa Engineering College Campus at
Farmagudi, Ponda. This was a day to remember. To commemorate this historic
occasion, a plaque was unveiled by the then Hon’ble HRD Minister Mr. Prakash
Javadekar in the presence of Hon’ble Defence Minister Mr. Manohar Parrikar and
the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Goa Mr. Laxmikant Parsekar. The first batch of 90
students was enrolled into three branches of Engineering — Mechanical, Electrical
and Computer Science & Engineering. The entire teaching load was handled by
faculties of IIT Bombay which continues to act as the mentoring Institute. As we
progressed into the semester, we realized managing students in a makeshift
campus and providing adequate facilities for faculties pose several challenges that
required serious planning. One- by-one, all issues ranging from lecture rooms to
housing were sorted out and we looked forward to the next semester.
On March 9, 2017, I took charge as the Director of IIT Goa. We set our vision on
four key themes: Teaching, Research, Outreach, and strategic planning for our
future. Our immediate task is to build our campus. At present we are devoting most
of our time to cast our distinctive strength by recruiting bright young faculty and
initiating research programs in new and emerging areas of excellence. The task is
cut out for us for the coming years, and only time will tell how well we put our ideas
into practice.
Goa has a rich cultural heritage—abundance of festivals and assortment of
attractions; there are so many places to explore! Therefore, since its inception, IIT
Goa has become a brand in itself, and I believe it will unleash its potential to
accomplish great things in the future.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Board of Governors
 
As per Section 11 of The Institutes of Technology Act 1961, the Board of Governors of IIT Goa is the following;
Sr.No.	Name	Designation
1.	Shri. K Sanjay Murthy,Secretary (HE), Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya), Govt. of India	Chairman
2.	Prof. Dhirendra S Katti,Director, IIT Goa	Member (Ex-officio)
3.	One person to be nominated by the Government of each of the States comprising the zone in which the Institute is situatedShri Nitin Kunkolienker,President (MAIT), New Delhi & Former President of Goa Chamber of Commerce Industry	Member
4.	Four persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of education, engineering or science, to be nominated by the council
	a.	Prof. Makarand Kulkarni,Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Bombay	Member
	b.	Shri. Ashok Goel,Chairman & Managing Director, Essel Propack Ltd. Mumbai	Member
	c.	Prof. Dileep Mavalankar,Director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar	Member
	d.	Smt. Saumya Gupta,Joint Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya), Govt. of India	Member (Ex-officio)
5.	Two professors of the Institute, to be nominated by the Senate
	a.	Prof. Rajesh S Prabhu Gaonkar, Professor (On Deputation),Mechanical Engineering	Member
	b.	Dr. Sharad Sinha, Associate Professor,Computer Science and Engineering	Member
6.	Dr. K. V. Reghuthaman,Registrar, IIT Goa	Secretary (Ex-officio)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Building and Works Committee
 
SI No	NAME	DESIGNATION
1	Prof. Dhirendra S KattiDirector, IIT Goa	Chairman (Ex-officio)
2	Prof. C.V.R. MurtyDepartment of Civil Engineering, IIT Madras	Member
3	Shri A K JainSpecial Director General (Retd.), CPWD	Member
4	Prof. P. VedagiriDean IPS, IIT Bombay	Member
5	Shri Sanjeeb MukherjeeSE, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad	Member
6	Superintending Engineer & Project Director CPWD, Goa	Member
7	Dr. K. V. Reghuthaman,Registrar, IIT Goa	Member Secretary (Ex-officio)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Finance Committee
 
Sr. No	Name	Designation
1.	Shri. K Sanjay Murthy,Secretary (HE), Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya), Govt. of India	Chairman
2.	Two Persons nominated by the Central Government
	a.	Shri. Sanjog Kapoor,Joint Secretary and Financial Advisor, Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya), Govt. of India	Member (Ex-officio)
	b.	Smt. Saumya Gupta,Joint Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education (Shiksha Mantralaya), Govt. of India	Member (Ex-officio)
3.	Two persons nominated by the Board
	a.	Prof. Makarand Kulkarni,Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Bombay	Member
	b.	Dr. R. Premkumar, Registrar,SRM University AP	Member
4.	Prof. Dhirendra S Katti,Director, IIT Goa	Member (Ex-officio)
5.	Dr. K. V. Reghuthaman,Registrar, IIT Goa	Secretary (Ex-officio)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Senate Committee
 
Sr.No	Name	                                        Designation
1.	Prof. Dhirendra S Katti, Director, IIT Goa	Chairman
2.	Prof. R. Murugavel, Professor, IIT Bombay	Member
3.	Prof. Rajesh Prasad, Professor, IIT Delhi	Member
4.	Prof. Kushal Deb, Professor, IIT Bombay	Member
5.	Mr. Ashish Kuvelkar,Sr. Director, CDAC	Member
6.	Mr. Sundeep Nayak,Ex-DG, National Productivity Council	Member
7.	Prof. B K Mishra, Professor, Former Director	Member
8.	Prof. Rajesh Prabhu Gaonkar, Professor, on Deputation	Member
9.	Dr. Sharad Sinha, Dean(FA)	Member
10.	Dr. Thaseem Thajudden, Dean(R&D)	Member
11.	Dr. Neelakandan R,Dean, (AP)	Member
12.	Dr. Rishikesh Narayan, Dean (SA)	Member
13.	Dr. Anirudha Ambekar, Associate Dean (Infrastructure & Support)	Member
14.	Dr. Amaldev Manuel, Associate Professor, SMCS	Member
15.	Dr. Sreejith A.V., Associate Professor, SMCS	Member
16.	Dr. Sujit Kumar Sahoo,Associate Professor, SES	Member
17.	Dr. Sunil Paul,Associate Professor, SHSS	Member
18.	Dr. Saumya Bajpai,Associate Professor, SMCS	Member
19.	Dr. Ashish Bhateja,Associate Professor, SMS	Member
20.	Dr. Santosh Kumar Das,Associate Professor, SPS	Member
21.	Dr. Raja Mitra,Associate Professor, SCMS	Member
22.	Dr. E. Siva S. Iyer,Associate Professor, SCMS	Member
23.	Dr. Clint P George,Associate Professor, SMCS	Member
24.	Dr. Sheron Figarado,Associate Professor, SES	Member
25.	Dr. Sashidhar Sampathirao,Associate Professor, SES	Member
26.	Dr. Shiv Parsad,Associate Professor, SMCS	Member
27.	Dr. Sandip Haldar,Associate Professor, SMS	Member
28.	Dr. Sudhakar Yogaraj,Associate Professor, SMS	Member
29.	Dr. Santosh Kumar,Associate Professor, SPS	Member
30.	Dr. Vaibhav Wasnik,Associate Professor, SPS	Member
31.	Dr. Sudipta kanungo,Associate Professor, SPS	Member
32.	Dr. Arindam Das,Associate Professor, SMS	Member
33.	Dr. Nandakumar N P,Associate Professor, SES	Member
34.	Dr. Mantu Santra,Assistant Professor, SCMS	Member
35.	Dr. Kedar Joshi,Assistant Professor, SCMS	Member
36.	Dr. Suvvari Anandarao,Assistant Professor, SHSS	Member
37.	Dr. K. V. Reghuthaman,Registrar, IIT Goa	Secretary

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Plan Your Visit

1. Travel

IIT Goa is located at Farmagudi, Ponda village, North Goa, Goa.
You can reach IIT Goa by

AIR:

Nearest Airport :
Dabolim – Vasco
Distance from IIT Goa : 38 Km
Mode of travelling available : Prepaid Taxi, Rickshaw, Pilot
Max. charge : Rs. 1200/-

Manohar International Airport (Goa Airport)
Distance from IIT Goa : 65 Km
Mode of travelling available : Prepaid Taxi, Rickshaw, Pilot
Max. charge : Rs. 2500/-

TRAIN:

Nearest Railway station : Madgaon
Distance from IIT Goa : 24Km
Mode of travelling available : Prepaid Taxi, Rickshaw, Pilot, Bus from madgao bus stand
Max. charge : taxi : Rs. 800/- Bus : Rs. 30/-

BUS:

Nearest Bus stand : Ponda
Distance from IIT Goa : 5 km
Max. charge : Rs. 10/-
Distance from Panjim Bus stand to IIT Goa : 28 km / Rs. 40/-
Distance from Madgaon Bus stand to IIT Goa : 24 km / Rs. 30/-

2. Stay in Ponda
Farmagudi Hill Retreat	
Hotel Royal Punjab (eateries near Corporation Bank on Campus)	
Hotel Menino	

3. Food on Campus
IIT Goa Dining Hall for IIT Goa Students

4. Restaurants in Ponda
Pan Aroma Restaurant	
The Goan Majestic	
Venkatesh Leela	
Hotel Sanman	
Antique Mardol

Act and Statutes
1. THE INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY ACT, 1961
2. THE INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2016
3. IIT GOA STATUTES
